What is a Meme?
  What is a Meme?
    A 'meme' is a virally-transmitted cultural symbol or social idea.
    The majority of modern memes are captioned photos that are intended to be funny, often as a way to publicly ridicule human behavior. Other memes can be videos and verbal expressions. Some memes have heavier and more philosophical content.

    The world of memes (which rhymes with 'teams') is noteworthy for two reasons: it is a worldwide social phenomenon, and memes behave like a mass of infectious flu and cold viruses, traveling from person to person quickly through social media.

    According to Cecil Adams of theStraightDope.com, the concept of memes "is either really deep, or really, really obvious".

    The "meme" word was first introduced by evolutionary biologist, Richard Dawkins, in 1976. "Meme" comes from the Greek word "mimema" (meaning "something imitated", American Heritage Dictionary).

    From: What Is a 'Meme'? https://www.lifewire.com/what-is-a-meme-2483702
  ---------
  Rickrolling
    "Rickrolling" is perhaps the most famous "bait and switch" meme on the internet today. If you haven't been unlucky enough to fall victim to it, it essentially involves being tricked into clicking an interesting video link (for instance, "Joseph Gordon-Levitt sings to a puppy") only to discover there is no video of Joseph Gordon-Levitt singing to a puppy. Instead, you have been redirected to the music video for Rick Astley's 1987 hit song, 'Never Going to Give You Up.'

    Rick Astley is a 1980s' British pop singer and songwriter. 'Never Gonna Give You Up' was his one massive hit single and his greatest moment of time. ('Together Forever' is basically the same song.) The song is a romantic and jaunty tune that promises a hypothetical lover that Rick will never betray her by doing a laundry list of horrible things (e.g. "Give You Up", "Let You Down", or "Turn Around and Desert You"). It is also considered an "earworm," meaning it is an insanely catchy song that will get stuck in your head.

    Like many other internet memes, Rickrolling can date its origins back to the 4chan message boards. Members of the 4chan community had begun to prank each other with a practice known as "duckrolling." Someone would post a link to something interesting, but when clicked, the link led to a photo of a duck on wheels. In May 2007, a poster on 4chan claimed to have a link to a trailer for the still unreleased video game, 'Grand Theft Auto 4,' but it instead turned out to be a link to the music video for Rick Astley's beautiful tune. Within a year, the practice of "Rickrolling" had spread to the mainstream internet.

    From: Rickrolling – Everything You Need to Know | http://thefw.com/rickrolling-everything-you-need-to-know/
  ----------
    Success Kid
      A baby who became a viral meme thanks to his determined expression and clenched fist now looks almost unrecognisable.

      Sammy Griner from Jacksonville, Florida, was 11 months old when he was dubbed the 'success kid' after his mother Laney posted a picture on Flickr of him playing on the beach.

      After Sammy's meme went viral, the family used the attention for a good cause and were able to raise money for his father Justin's kidney transplant, ABC reported.

      Laney said: 'There's so much positivity. There's not a single thing we regret about Success Kid.'

      'It's pretty crazy how it all happened. I still can't wrap my head around it.'

      They created a GoFundMe page and were eventually able to raise more than $100,000 to help with medical care costs, well over their original goal of $75,000.
      Justin, whose mother died from kidney disease, had been on dialysis for more than six years.
      The transplant surgery in August 2015 was a success.

      From: The face that launched a thousand memes: 'Success Kid' who became a viral star as a baby is all grown up at 10 years old http://www.dailymail.co.uk/femail/article-3498922/The-face-launched-thousand-memes-Success-Kid-viral-star-baby-grown-10-years-old.html
