San Juan Islands
  Lopez Island
    Lopez Island is the first stop on the Washington State Ferry from Anacortes.  The island is 15 miles long and 8 miles wide, with 2,400 year round residents.
    There's much to do on Lopez: visit Lopez Village and browse in the shops and galleries, eat in one of our fine restaurants, get fresh-baked goodies or have a drink at one of our coffee shops. There are plenty of places to explore the beach and wetlands around the Village.  Visit one of our county day parks, Odlin County Park, or Spencer Spit State Park to enjoy the beach, and see wildlife in its natural element.  Drive or bicycle to the south end of the island.  Stop at the Southend General Store and Restaurant for groceries or a snack,then visit Watmough Bay, Point Colville,  Agate Beach or Iceberg Point for delightful outdoor scenery  and great hikes.  Hike or ride your mountain bike up to the top of Lopez Hill for a "woodsy" experience.
    Kayaking, Cycling, Whale Watching, Hiking, and Fishing:  these adventures and more await you on Lopez Island, the "Jewel of the San Juan Islands."
    From About Lopez Island http://www.lopezisland.com/aboutlopez.htm

  Orcas Island
    Pick your pleasure on Orcas Island. It's a magical mix of arts and culture, lush forests, placid lakes and endless outdoor possibilities. Charming villages of Olga, Deer Harbor, Westsound and Orcas Village dot the island as centers of culture, art and cuisine. Relax and enjoy the island's quality sampling of restaurants, boutiques, art galleries and museums.
    For a dose of the great outdoors, hop aboard a whale watching and wildlife tour. Rent a kayak and see the island paddling along its shores, or jump on a bike and cruise the countryside. Hike the rugged old growth trails of the 5,000-acre Moran State Park to see the expansive marine vistas from the summit of Mount Constitution. On your way, watch for soaring bald eagles, deer, rabbits or more than 250 species of birds that can be seen here throughout the year. Taking in the the sunset over Puget Sound, with fog clinging to the island's forests, can truly be a spiritual experience.
    Miles of shoreline ribbon the island with numerous beaches, both public and private. Surrounding land masses offer the San Juans protection from harsh weather, so the islands enjoy a year round climate that is more moderate than other locations in the Pacific Northwest.
    The islanders gather in several quaint villages dotted around the island, with Eastsound being the major hub of island activity. Each community is unique and celebrates its individuality in different ways throughout the year.
    This beautiful island has something for everyone … kayak in the Puget Sound; climb a mountain trail to enjoy the beautiful vistas; see Orca whales and marine wildlife; stroll through Eastsound village, exploring the small town shops; enjoy a wide array of superb dining choices; or simply sit back, relax, and enjoy the natural beauty of Orcas Island. The Orcas Island Chamber of Commerce hopes a visit to our island is in your plans. Please let us know how we can help.
    From Orcas Island Chamber of Commerce http://orcasislandchamber.com/

  San Juan Island
    You'll discover something new around every bend in the road on San Juan Island—an alpaca ranch, a sweeping valley dotted with cows or sheep, the terraces of a lavender farm, vineyards with a tasting room in a historic schoolhouse, deep forest giving way to shining sea, a pod of orca whales in the distance, and two iconic lighthouses. Variety, beauty, serenity ... day after amazing day.
    Friday Harbor is the Gateway to the San Juan Islands
    Historic and just one square mile in size, Friday Harbor is the very walkable hub of San Juan Island, the most populated of the San Juans. Browse art galleries, bookstores and antique shops. Sample a bouquet of boutiques, stop for a cafe lunch or enjoy a fresh seafood dinner overlooking the harbor. Visit The Whale Museum, the San Juan Historical Society & Museum, San Juan Islands Museum of Art (SJIMA), San Juan Community Theatre, or meander through the marina.
    Drive the Scenic Byway to Roche Harbor and back
    When you are ready to adventure out of Friday Harbor, the Scenic Byway routes (North, South and West) take you through rolling farmlands, along stunning coastlines, and past some of the main attractions on San Juan Island, such as Cattle Point Lighthouse, American Camp, Lime Kiln Point Lighthouse, English Camp, San Juan Vineyards and more.
    If you are into outdoor adventure, go out on a whale and wildlife watching tour, kayak tour, or go hiking or biking. After a day of adventure, explore some  of the great restaurants on San Juan Island, such as Duck Soup Inn, or McMillin's at Roche Harbor, or enjoy a great meal in Friday Harbor.
    From Discover San Juan Island https://www.visitsanjuans.com/about-the-islands/san-juan-island
