State Parks in Oregon
  Ainsworth State Park Campground
    Nestled in the awe-inspiring Columbia River Gorge, Ainsworth is equal parts waterfall wonderland, hiker’s playground and camper’s delight.Situated at the eastern end of Historic Highway 30, from Ainsworth to Crown Point to the west, you’ll find the world’s greatest concentration of high waterfalls (like Multnomah Falls).

    By leaving the park on Nesmith Point trail, you’ll end up with a splendid view of St. Peter’s Dome, a majestic basalt monolith rising 2,000 feet above the mighty Columbia River. Hiking is definitely something you’ll want to do while camping at Ainsworth State Park.

    A tract of 40 acres was donated in 1933 by John C. Ainsworth and his wife, Alice. Additional land was purchased in 1947 and 1966. Original picnic facilities and trails were constructed in 1935 by Civilian Conservation Corps workers. John Churchill Ainsworth (1870-1943) was a prominent Oregon businessman and banker (U. S. National Bank) in Portland. He served as chairman of the State Highway Commission 1931-1932 and was the son of Captain J. C. Ainsworth, pioneer steam-boatman and founder of the Oregon Steam Navigation Company.

    From: Ainsworth State Park Campground http://columbiariverhighway.com/ainsworth-state-park-camping/

  ----
  Silver Falls
    People call it the “crown jewel” of the Oregon State Parks system, and once you visit, you know why. Silver Falls State Park is the kind of standout scenic treasure that puts Oregon firmly onto the national—and international—stage. Its beauty, boundless recreational opportunities and historic presence keep it there. Nestled in the foothills of Oregon’s Cascade Mountains, less than an hour east of the state capital of Salem, the sprawling 9,200 acre property is the largest state park in Oregon, and one of the most popular.

    Waterfalls:  Where else can you walk behind a waterfall? Check out the famous South Falls and see what a 177-foot curtain of water looks like from behind. It’s part of the Trail of Ten Falls, a spectacular, nationally recognized hiking trail that weaves through a dense forested landscape. The trail passes a series of breathtaking waterfalls along a rocky canyon, and descends to a winding creek at the forest floor. This 7.2 mile loop is considered to be a moderate hike, with an overall elevation change of 800 feet.  Several connecting trails with separate access points make shorter routes. For everyone’s safety— absolutely no pets allowed on the Canyon Trail.  Pets on leash are allowed on all other trails.

    Boots, bikes, paws, hooves: The park offers more than 25 miles of backcountry trails for mountain biking, hiking or horseback riding.  Bears and cougars live in the more remote park areas.

    Daytime activities: The South Falls Day-use area has spacious lawns, barbecue stands, picnic shelters, tables, a playground, horseshoe pits, an off lead area for dogs, and a charming creek.  Ever since the opening day in 1933, visitors have been using these grounds for potlucks, family reunions and weddings.

    From: Silver Falls State Park http://oregonstateparks.org/index.cfm?do=parkPage.dsp_parkPage&parkId=151
  ----
  Stub Stewart State Park
    Since its grand opening in 2007 Stub Stewart State Park has seen many changes and the addition of many services and recreational attractions.  The park is a great place to go spend a few hours, a day, a weekend or longer; there is plenty to do in this jewel in our corner of Oregon.

    The mountain bike trails are built away from the day use areas and are somewhat difficult to locate.  “You have to be looking for this area, visitors won’t just stumble upon it,” says Kruger.  The free ride area is being developed by the Westside Trail Federation (WTF).  Parts of the area are still under construction and new trail is continually being developed, but numerous trails are open and ready to be ridden and have some very large jumps, twists and turns, one large wall and numerous technical trail features.

    If careening down a single track trail on a mountain bike isn’t your idea of a good time Stub Stewart has thirty miles of mixed use trails for hiking.  Originally many of the trails were constructed on old logging roads and went straight up and down the numerous hills throughout the park.  Since then many of the trails have been rerouted to include switch backs,  climbing turns and other improvements.  The park has an excellent trail system that will allow any visitor a chance to explore and enjoy the solitude of nature.

    From: What’s New at Stub Stewart State Park http://www.vernoniasvoice.com/2013/04/03/whats-new-at-stub-stewart-state-park/
